Another data type we discussed
previously is the list.
Lists are useful because they allow you to
store multiple pieces of
data in a single variable.
In the security profession,
you will work with a variety of lists.
For example, you may have a list of IP
addresses that have accessed a network, and
another list might hold
information on applications that
are blocked from running on the system.
Let's recap how to create
a list in Python. In this case,
the items in our list
are the letters A through E.
We separate them by commas and
surround them with square brackets.
We can also assign our list to a variable
to make it easier to use later.
Here, we've named our variable my_list.
When we access specific
elements from lists,
we use syntax similar to when we access
the specific elements from strings.
We place its index value in brackets
after the variable that stores the list.
So this would access
the second item in the list.
This is because in Python,
we start counting the elements in
the list at zero and not at one.
So the index for
the first element is zero and
the index for the second element is one.
Let's try extracting some
elements from a list.
We'll extract the second element by putting
1 in brackets after the variable.
We place this in a print() function
to output the results, and
after we run it,
Python outputs the letter "b".
Similar to strings, we can also
concatenate lists with the plus sign.
List concatenation is combining
two lists into one by placing
the elements of the second list directly
after the elements of the first list.
Let's work with this in Python.
Let's concatenate two lists.
First, we define the same list
as in the previous example and
store it in the variable my_list.
Now, let's define an additional
list with the numbers 1 through 4.
Finally, let's concatenate the two
lists with a plus sign and
print out the result. And when we run it,
we have a final concatenated list.
Having discussed the similarities,
let's now explore the differences
between lists and strings.
We mentioned earlier that
strings are immutable, meaning
after they are defined,
they cannot be changed.
Lists, on the other hand,
do not have this property, and
we can freely change, add, and
remove list values.
So, for example, if we have a list
of malicious IP addresses,
then every time a new malicious
IP address is identified,
we can easily add it to the list.
Let's first try changing a specific
element in a list in Python. We start with
the list used in the previous example.
To change an element in a list,
We combine what we learned
about bracket notation
with what we learned about
variable assignment.
Let's change the second
element in my_list,
which is the string "b",
to the number 7.
We place the object we want to
change on the left-hand side of
the variable assignment.
In this case,
we'll change the second element in my_list.
Then we place an equals sign to indicate
we are reassigning this
element of the list.
Finally, we place the object to take
its place on the right-hand side.
Here, we'll reassign the second
list element to a value of 7.
Now let's print out the list and
run the code to examine the change.
Perfect! The letter "b" is now
changed to the number 7.
Now, let's take a look at methods for
inserting and removing elements in lists.
The first method we'll work with in
this video is the insert method.
The insert method adds an element
in a specific position
inside a list.
The method takes two arguments:
the first is the position we're
adding the element to, and
the second is the element we want to add.
Let's use the insert method.
We'll start with the list we
defined in our my_list variable.
Then we type my_list.insert and
pass in two arguments.
The first argument is the position
where we want to insert
the new information. In this case,
we want to insert into index 1.
The second argument
is the information we want to add
to the list; in this case,
the integer 7.
Now let's print my_list.
Our list still begins with "a",
the element with an index of 0,
and now, we have the integer
7 in the next position,
the position represented
with an index of 1.
Notice that the letter "b", which
was originally at index 1,
did not get replaced
like when we used bracket notation.
With the insert method,
every element beyond index
1 is simply shifted
down by one position.
The index of "b" is now 2.
Sometimes we might want to remove
an element that is no longer
needed from a list. To do this,
we can use the remove method.
The removed method
removes the first occurrence of
a specific element in the list.
Unlike insert, the argument of
removed is not an index value.
Instead, you directly type
the element you want to remove.
The remove method removes the first
instance of it in the list.
Let's use the remove method to
delete the letter "d" from our list.
We'll type the name of our variable
my_list, then add the remove method.
We want to remove "d"from this list. So,
we'll place it in quotation marks
as our argument. Then we'll print my_list.
And let's run this. Perfect!
"d" has now been removed from the list.
Just like with strings,
being able to search through lists
is a necessary skill for
security analysts.
I'm looking forward to
expanding our understanding
as we move forward in this course.